---
title: "Changes from the Trenches: Should We Automate Them?"
authors: '<i><b>Yaroslav Golubev</b>, Jiawei Li, Viacheslav Bushev, Timofey Bryksin and Iftekhar Ahmed</i>'
status: "preprint"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-05-21-patterns
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2021-05-21
venue: "arXiv"
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.10157'
citation: 'Golubev, Y., Li, J., Bryksin, T., Bushev, V., & Ahmed, I. (2021). Changes from the Trenches: Should We Automate Them?. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.10157.'
---
In our work, we developed a tool called PythonChangeMiner that allows to discover code change patterns in the
histories of Python projects. We validated the tool and then employed it to discover patterns in the dataset of
120 projects from four different domains of software engineering. We manually categorized patterns that occur in
more than one project from the standpoint of their structure and content, and compared different domains and
patterns in that regard. We conducted a survey of the authors of the discovered changes: 82.9% of them said
that they can give the change a name and 57.9% expressed their desire to have the changes automated, indicating
the ability of the tool to discover valuable patterns. Finally, we interviewed 9 members of a popular integrated
development environment (IDE) development team to estimate the feasibility of automating the discovered changes.
It was revealed that independence from the context and high precision made a pattern a better candidate for
automation. The patterns received mainly positive reviews and several were ranked as very likely for automation.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.10157.pdf)

Recommended citation: Golubev, Y., Li, J., Bryksin, T., Bushev, V., & Ahmed, I. (2021). Changes from the Trenches: Should We Automate Them?. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.10157..